docs: adding document for Adding messages page (#2025)
asyncapi/website: pages/docs/concepts/asyncapi-document/adding-messages.md

---
title: Adding Messages
weight: 140
---

Adding [messages](../message) in an AsyncAPI document primarily involves defining channels, operations, and messages. This process is crucial for documenting the exchange of data between your applications. In AsyncAPI, you define the interaction of your application with a message broker in terms of channels and operations. [Channels](../channel) are the medium through which messages are sent or received, while operations represent the actions of publishing or subscribing to these channels.

Here is a diagram explaining messages:

```mermaid
graph TD;

>     A[AsyncAPI Message] --> B[Headers]
>     A --> C[Payload]
>     B --> D[Header Content]
>     C --> E[Payload Content]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    A[AsyncAPI Message] --> B[Headers]
    A --> C[Payload]
```

I think this one could be shorter. Unless there's a difference between Headers/Payload and Header/Payload Content.

    style A fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#47BCEE;
```

The above diagram shows the components of AsyncAPI messages: headers and payload, which further contain header content and payload content.

Here is an example of a simple message:

```yml
channels:
  user/signedup:
    address: 'application/json'
    messages:
      userSignUp:
        $ref: '#/components/messages/userSignUp'
```

This document defines a `user/signedup` channel where a `userSignUp` message can be made.

> ## Using `oneOf` for multiple message types
> 
> AsyncAPI supports the use of `oneOf` for messages under operations, allowing you to define multiple possible message types for a single operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Using multiple message types

AsyncAPI supports defining multiple possible message types for a single channel.
```

> Here is a diagram showing the use of `oneOf`:
> 
> ```mermaid
> graph TD;
>     A[Operations] --> B[Messages]
>     B --> C[oneOf]
>     C --> D[Message Type 1]
>     C --> E[Message Type 2]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is a diagram showing its usage:

```mermaid
graph TD;
    A[Operations] --> B[Messages]
    B --> C[Message Type 1]
    B --> D[Message Type 2]
```

    style C fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#47BCEE;
```

> This diagram shows how AsyncAPI uses `oneOf` to define multiple message types for a single operation.

Reviewer: I'd just get rid of this as it's saying the same as the paragraph before the diagram.

```suggestion
```

> Here is an example document of how `oneOf` permits the use of multiple message types for a single operation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is an example document of how AsyncAPI supports the use of multiple message types for a single channel:
```

```yml

> channel:
> $ref: '#/channels/userSignupReply'
> messages:
>   oneOf:
>       - $ref: '#/components/messages/userSignedUp'
>       - $ref: '#/components/messages/userSignedUpReply'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
channels:
  userSignupWithReply:
    messages:
      signup:
        $ref: '#/components/messages/userSignedUp'
      reply:
        $ref: '#/components/messages/userSignedUpReply'
```

```

> The above document shows a channel `userSignupReply` under which two messages can be sent or received: `userSignedUp` or `userSignedUpReply`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above document shows a channel `userSignupWithReply` under which two messages can be sent or received: `userSignedUp` or `userSignedUpReply`.
```

## Specifying `contentType` in messages

> The `contentType` field specifies the format of the payload. If it's not provided, the default payload format is `application/json`. However, it's recommended always to specify the contentType for clarity and to avoid potential misinterpretations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `contentType` field specifies the format of the payload. If it's not provided, the default payload format is `application/json`.
```

I'd be careful with this recommendation. Adding the content type in each message also creates a hell of a maintenance burden.

Here is a diagram showing how to specify `contentType` in messages:

> ```mermaid
> graph TD;
>     A[AsyncAPI Message] --> B[Payload]
>     B -->|Default| C[application/json]
>     B -->|Specified contentType| D[Other Content Types]
> 
>     style A fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#47BCEE;
> ```

Reviewer: The `contentType` is not under payload but along with it as you show in the example below. However, do you really think this diagram is useful? I have the feeling that we're just putting way too many diagrams for the sake of putting diagrams. What do you think?

If you still want to keep it, it would be more like this IMHO:

```suggestion
```mermaid
graph TD;
    A[AsyncAPI Message] --> B[contentType]

    style A fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#47BCEE;
```
```

> The above diagram shows an AsyncAPI message consists of a payload, which can default to application/json but should ideally have a specified contentType for clarity and precision.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above diagram shows an AsyncAPI message that can specify a content type (`contentType`), which defaults to `application/json`.
```

I also removed the recommendation at the end of the sentence for the reasons I explained in my other comment above.

The following code shows how `contentType` is added to the Message:

```yml
messageId: userSignup
name: UserSignup
title: User signup
summary: Action to sign a user up.
description: A longer description
contentType: application/json
```

> In this document, the `contentType` is specified as `application/json` for the `userSignup`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this document, the `contentType` is specified as `application/json` for the `userSignup` message.
```

## Reusing components

> The components object in the AsyncAPI specification contains reusable objects, but they will only impact the API if they are specifically referred to outside the components object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The components object in the AsyncAPI specification contains reusable objects, but they will only impact the application if they are specifically referred to outside the components object.
```

Here is a diagram explaining how to reuse components:

```mermaid
flowchart TB

subgraph Components Object
  Component_1
  Component_2
  Component_3
end

subgraph API
  API_implementation --> Component_1:Uses
  API_implementation --> Component_2:Uses
  API_implementation --> Component_3:Uses

  style API_implementation fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#47BCEE;
end

> ```

Reviewer: I'm confused by this diagram. What exactly did you try to convey here? 🤔

Author: I tried to explain the **reusing components** section here. Do you think I should change it? In what way it would be better in your opinion?
